---
description: 
draft: false
tags: 
date: 2024-10-02
---
*el plan*

---
I find it funny how I think I'm going to do $x$ the following day, and by the morning I change my mind to $y$, and on the way to $y$ I redirect to $z$.

This morning I spent 3 hours at the piano trying to compose something new, having originally sat down to play "something I know" and then go to work.

---
I listen to a few interviews. I once listened to an interview of John Carmack (famous programmer). A part of his programming workflow was having a folder[^1] called "plan". These files would contain Carmack's thoughts on his project, notes to self: where he expected the project to go next; what bugs could arise; how was he going to solve the next problem... or at least that's what I think they contain. I read one or two a while ago.

I do the same thing. I have `plan.md` in my projects. It's immensely useful just to have a file with one big ever expanding to-do list - to see your big problem broken down visually by the chisel of your brain - and equally satisfying to tick things off one by one.

It's really half a plan, half an ever-evolving train of thought. 

---
The other day I was leaving work and I noticed my lanyard swinging violently out of control. Wayyy side-to-side, like it was trying to escape. My lanyard normally never does this. It was extremely annoying, especially because I've known my lanyard to spontaneously fall apart at one of the joining bits when pulled in a weird accidental way.

Then I noticed the phase of the swing was synchronised with my walking cadence. I increased it, but to no avail. Then I realised the strap of my satchel pressing the lanyard to my chest, effectively shortening its length, thereby altering the resonant frequency of the lanyard. 

And because it was a good day at work, this all made me quite happy.

[^1]: Or was it just one monolithic file... can't remember